There we have it.
Object oriented programming and functional programming.
They are both paradigms and a programming paradigm is well writing code compliant with a specific set
of rules.
For example organizing the code into units would be called Object Oriented Programming.
Avoiding side effects and writing pure functions would be called functional programming in object oriented
programming.
An object is a box containing information and operations that are supposed to refer to the same concept
or grouping it as an object.
These pieces of information inside of the objects are called attributes or state and the operations
that can happen on the state are known as methods in functional programming.
The code is essentially a combination of functions and data is immutable which leads to writing programs
with no side effects and pure functions because in a function in a functional programming paradigm that
function cannot change the outside world and the output value of a function simply depends on the given
arguments.
This allows functional programming to really have control over a program flow.
Now over the last couple of sections we learned about these two paradigms and we even coded some examples
with it.
So what do we learn.
We learned that functional programming is based on different concepts right.
We have higher order functions pure functions Referential transparency in functional programming functions
are first class citizens in object oriented programming objects are first class citizens and we learned
about the pillars of each of these paradigms in object oriented programming.
We had abstraction we had encapsulation where it allows us to encapsulate ideas that are related together
and objects.
It helped us hide irrelevant data from the user we learned about inheritance and then we learned about
polymorphism in functional programming.
We learned that it's all about the idea of pure functions and composing functions to act upon that data
now object oriented programming has been around for a long time since the 70s and functional programming
as well.
If not even earlier object oriented programming is very common in languages like C sharp Python Java
and then functional programming is very common in languages like closure and Haskell but at the end
of the day there is no one better than the other.
All of them are good in their own ways.
They're simply different approaches to the same problem.
How do we write clear easy to extend easy to maintain efficient dry code in a functional style functions
manipulate data structures like trees and arrays and objects and things like composition are used a
lot more than loops and iterations and if else statements that are more procedural now although some
languages prefer one over the other in terms of programming paradigms languages like Javascript allow
you to do both.
Which in my opinion is extremely wonderful because you can pick the solution to your own problem although
the language that you use does have an effect on which type of paradigm.
You're right even pure functions like Haskell.
Well you can write procedural code you can write object oriented style and procedural languages like
C The thing is that the benefits are in the application of these ideas.
To be clear the advantage of each paradigm is simply in the modelling of your algorithm and data structures.
The choice of which you use is simply what makes more sense for your project and the language that you're
using.